---
title: Walkthroughs
layout: home
parent: Dark Earth
nav_order: 6
permalink: /dark-earth/walkthroughs
---

# Walkthroughs

## No Commentary Full Walkthrough - by CabStep

<iframe width="640" height="480" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/MNskkqG_1r4?si=AJD0WkfDzejFgK2I" title="No Commentary Full Walkthrough" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen style="margin: 6px; display: inline-flex; border-radius: 15px; border: 1px solid #80808042; padding: 5px;"></iframe>

## Walkthrough Playlist with Commentary - by davidspackage

<iframe width="640" height="480" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/videoseries?si=dLYUzl4kj0fhGAR3&amp;list=PL015FE1B4AE0EA200" title="Walkthrough Playlist with Commentary" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen style="margin: 6px; display: inline-flex; border-radius: 15px; border: 1px solid #80808042; padding: 5px;"></iframe>

## Walkthrough Playlist - by 123Pazu

<iframe width="640" height="480" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/videoseries?si=xMMdjqNt3CMrLNW2&amp;list=PL233BA919201B5098" title="Walkthrough Playlist" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen style="margin: 6px; display: inline-flex; border-radius: 15px; border: 1px solid #80808042; padding: 5px;"></iframe>

## Walkthrough Playlist in French - by LAHWK

<iframe width="640" height="480" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/videoseries?si=ipkjpHXSkcaXjaFa&amp;list=PLLdOF8Cm9ZemVbehNKa4jLpGxdv9SwXR3" title="Walkthrough Playlist in French" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen style="margin: 6px; display: inline-flex; border-radius: 15px; border: 1px solid #80808042; padding: 5px;"></iframe>

## Walkthrough Playlist in Russian - by Pikachu's Gaming Den

<iframe width="640" height="480" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/videoseries?si=JkrQ5vQrDzD6g811&amp;list=PLDRwXllVzzQITRgnqkUU7pHnYuJ9U0AAf" title="Walkthrough Playlist in Russian" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen style="margin: 6px; display: inline-flex; border-radius: 15px; border: 1px solid #80808042; padding: 5px;"></iframe>

## Dark Earth Movie - by DeeALup

<iframe width="640" height="480" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/OkJPMTMzQRk?si=GVcyO43IiP8pXFeN" title="Dark Earth Movie" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen style="margin: 6px; display: inline-flex; border-radius: 15px; border: 1px solid #80808042; padding: 5px;"></iframe>


## Complete Guides

### Walkthrough by CRASH

[Dark Earth Walkthrough by CRASH](https://the-spoiler.com/ADVENTURE/Kalisto/dark.earth.2/dark.htm)


### Dark Earth Soluion created by Kalisto Entertainment.

Source: [https://gamefaqs.gamespot.com/pc/197044-dark-earth/faqs/2343](https://gamefaqs.gamespot.com/pc/197044-dark-earth/faqs/2343)

### Background

The adventure takes place in the Stallite Sparta (and surrounding area), a ray 
of light and hope lost in the middle of the depths of the Darklands. Like many 
Stallites, Sparta is organised like an ant nest in which each person has a 
defined role and place in society.

All of the inhabitants of a Stallite belong to a cast. Here is a list of the 
casts by order of importance:

The Sunseers, servants of the Sun God who run the Stallites. 
The Healers who are Sunseers in charge of medicine. 
The Guardians of Fire, responsible for the security and respect of the law. 
The Builders, responsible for construction. 
The Providers who feed the town. 
The Scavengers, who make up the population of the Stallites.

The Sunseers, Guardians of Fire and the Builders live in the magnificent Upper 
Town while the 'lower casts' are crammed into the Lower Town, an enormous slum, 
surviving as best they can depending on their abilities.

Sometimes the 'Wanderers', travellers from the Darklands are allowed to enter 
the Stallites.

### Arkhan: A career as a guard?

The character that you control is a Guardian of Fire called Arkhan (clearly not 
delighted with his position). Don't worry, being a Guardian of Fire is not that 
bad, it can even lead you to unexpected and unusual jobs.

You are therefore one of the guards who has just woken up after a strange dream 
(the dream is the cinematic scene at the beginning), at your side is the gentle 
Kalhi, a young scavenger.

Get up and get ready, put your uniform on and get your sword.

You are advised not to eat the salt beef that is on your bedside table, as you 
will need it later.

Zed, one of your guardian friends is waiting for you outside and asks you if you 
want to train with him in the weapons room. You are recommended to follow him if 
you have no idea of the methods of combat in the game. You will also find 
Captain Phédoria there, this beautiful young woman, an excellent fighter, will 
join your practice with zeal.

It is up to you to make the most of these warm ups to understand the art of 
combat in Dark Earth.

In the training room you will find an axe. Leave it where it is, you may need it 
later. 

Go downstairs and receive your orders from the provost Dhorkan.


The entrance to his office is guarded, make sure that you are in "Light" mode 
and speak to the guard in front of the door, he will let you enter.

Once in front of the provost you will receive your orders: He sends you to guard 
the entrance to the chamber of the Council of Sunseers (the highest authority in 
the Stallite) who have a meeting with the Scavengers from the Lower Town.

Go down the stairs and run to the temple of the Sun God, it is on the left-hand 
side when you come out of the barracks.

You arrive in front of the entrance and surprise Lory and Rylsadhar, your 
father, a Sunseer also, deep in conversation. After having listened to them you 
must go to the entrance to the Council chamber.

NB: if you wish, you can also go and speak to the guardians of fire in the 
barracks, go and talk to your father or even tease Zed on the platform that 
leads to the Lower town.

Once inside the temple, join your colleague Jedar who is waiting for you in a 
bad mood ( Arkhan has the bad habit of being late). Make sure that you have your 
sword in your hand and be on guard.

You and your colleague are suddenly alerted by a loud noise from the interior of 
the chamber.

The cinematic scene that follows your entrance shows the assassination of the 
two Councillors and poor Jedar (not a good day for him!).

Go into combat mode and kill the bastard that attacks you! 

Once you have won the combat you see (cinematic) Lory being attacked by a second 
person and run to help the great Sunseer, you receive a cup of poison directly 
in the face. You fall to the ground unable to do anything and paralysed with 
pain, only the fortunate intervention of Zed and his Python 357 pistol save you 
from certain death before blacking out.

### Contaminated!

Once the delirium (in which you learn of your contamination by the Darkness) is 
over you wake up in a hospital; you are in the hospital where the Healer 
Sunseers take care of you.

It is unnecessary to say that your quest begins here and that your time is 
short, in that an awful illness, "The evil of the Darkness" is within you and 
threatens your own humanity.

Once up you are immediately attacked by Dulnys, A Guardian of Fire frightened by 
your new appearance. You have no choice but to kill him (if you can, go and find 
the knife in the other part of the room). 

Once Dulnys is dead take his weapon, Thanandar, the Healer comes into the room 
almost immediately.

Talk with him to explain what happened and above all do not go outside until he 
has shouted to Phédoria (outside) that all is well.

He then explains to you that the guard was no more than an ignorant fanatic, he 
also tells you (it seems) all he can on the subject of your illness. He speaks 
of a mysterious crypt in which you can be healed, apparently only your father 
knows how to get there.

After these clarifications go to Thanandar's laboratory and take the gas 
canister from Before (right of the screen) and the knife (left) if you do not 
already have it.

Save your game by activating the symbol of the Sun God on the wall, leave the 
hospital and go to your father's apartments which are on the small square with 
the fountain.

Once inside, you go to the shelves that are in the entrance and take the empty 
flask which is there. 

Speak to your father Rylsadhar about your illness. He is ready to anything to 
help you. 

To do this he must ask Dhorkan's express permission to break certain laws, he 
says he will meet you at the archivist's which is not far from the Council 
Chamber, Khali arrives at the same time.

Once Rylsadhar has left, find the document that is under his bed, a kind of 
mysterious code. Khali cannot help you, as a scavenger she never had the 
opportunity to learn to read.

The platform that links the Upper and Lower Towns is now under surveillance. Be 
extremely careful, since the assassination attempt against Lory the situation 
has become extremely tense, you look bad and the Guardians of Fire will be 
looking for you.

It is however possible to try and convince them, solidarity between brothers in 
arms obliges! Fore this type of negotiation it is preferable to be in "Light" 
mode. 

Leave Rylsadhar's room and go back up to the temple (you will be subjected to a 
diatribe from a fanatic Sunseer). In the Council chamber go up the staircase on 
the left and enter by the door on the left.

Once inside you will find Sesekan the archivist at work. Speak to him and get 
some information. It is important to know that he has not seen your father all 
day (strange!) and he gives you some more information about your possible cure.

Turn around and examine the piece of furniture to the right of the door, you see 
a mirror from Before.

Reading the spell book that is open next to the wall you also have the 
possibility to learn more about the history of Sparta, in that way you can 
spread your knowledge to the inhabitants of the Lower Town. 

Near this book is a kind of mechanism. Use it with the document that you found 
under your father's bed: You discover a secret hide out. Inside there is a metal 
plate a little like the score for an organ grinder. You do not have to use it 
but it might help you get into the famous crypt that Thanandar spoke of.

Leave and return to the barracks.

You can stop at the foot of the stairs that lead to apartments on the upper 
floors, you will find a barrel of stohll (mushroom based alcohol) on the table. 
Take the empty gourd that is on one of the barrels behind the table, fill it up 
and go upstairs. You can also go and get your meat that was in your apartment at 
the beginning of the adventure. If you go upstairs take the axe, be very careful 
of Phédoria: Speak to her in "Light" mode and without the axe in your hand 
otherwise she will not hesitate in putting an end to your slow decline.

One equipped, leave by the glass doors to go out onto the balcony (at the end of 
the hall, behind the staircase).

### Escape

Go towards the door on the left and enter calmly, you are now in the master 
oiler Bogdaran's chamber.

Go immediately towards the copper objects on the floor. They are boilers for a 
spitrod, the ammunition for the handmade weapons used by the Guardians of Fire 
of Sparta. Take them all as well as the plates of lead which are on the shelves 
in front of the staircase.

After that, climb, do not pay attention to the man that is working, it is 
Bogdaran, the Master Oiler, he is not very talkative and he is afraid of you. 
There is therefore no point in disturbing him. 

Return to the shelves to your left and take the key. Go downstairs and go toward 
the chest that is to the left of the door. Open it with the key that you found 
on the shelves, take Bogdaran's old uniform.

Return to the balcony and go and open the door opposite: It is the barrack 
prison.

Once you are inside, take out your weapon and change to combat mode. Go down the 
steps and kill the jailer. You will find his weapon on him as well as the keys 
to the cell behind you.

What are you waiting for? Open the cell.


Good, remember that martial law has been imposed and your love, Kalhi the 
scavenger did not have the right to be in the Upper Town. Do not be surprised 
when you find her locked up (and happy to see you!) in the cell.

Give her the old uniform and let her do her own thing, which is the best thing 
you'll have done since this morning. Follow her and pretend to be her prisoner, 
you can then easily pass the security checks in the barracks.

Kalhi offers to divert the guard on the passage, when she has finished speaking 
to him and he leaves for the barracks, hide behind the cart that is in front of 
the lift, let the guard pass and return to your love.

Place yourself behind the console and activate the leer to go down. Down to the 
Lower Town!

NB: You can also forget the idea of the disguise and fight your way to the Lower 
Town (with Kalhi). It is a lot more difficult as the Guardians of Fire are tough 
but it is also an opportunity to collect some weapons, namely a spitrod from the 
platform guard.

### Visit of the Lower City

Once arrived you will need to be relatively diplomatic with your entourage, not 
that you will be immediately attacked but your unpleasant appearance will 
certainly cause some suspicion.

Once arrived, Kalhi will take refuge at Danrys's home, a mutual scavenger friend 
who would do anything to help you. Follow her and talk to Danrys.

On leaving Danrys cross the square (you can talk to the legless invalid but be 
careful he is sensitive) and search the area until you find a breastplate. Do 
not hesitate to save the game.

Once you have collected the breastplate leave the square by the left-hand side. 
Keep going until you find yourself in front of a tavern situated in front of a 
passage which crosses many of the canals of the Lower Town.

Enter the bar and enjoy the show...

When Delia, the stripper has finished dancing follow her backstage and talk to 
her. If you bring her something shiny and beautiful she will help you get in 
touch with Armal Sadak, the best-known scavenger of the Lower Town.

You are in possession of the type of precious material that Delia is looking 
for: "The Mirror of Before".

Delia will be very happy with the present and will tell you the magic words that 
you must use when in the presence of Armal Sadak for him to help you.


The hideout of this precious ally is a boat on the quay, on the right a little 
after the tavern. Armal will stay behind the table which is on your left when 
you enter, approach him and start talking to him.

He will suggest you play a game of Yong (a game inspired by Othello). If you win 
he will give you all the information you need (or nearly). You don't have to 
play Sadak but the information he can give you will help you understand what is 
going on in Sparta. You will learn that the troublemakers who attacked Lory are 
called Konkalites (their chief, Sordos is the old right hand man of Sadak). 
Their base is somewhere in the depths of the Lower Town.

The only problem, each time you play Sadak you must bet one of your weapons and 
whatever the result of the game, you lose. 

NB : If you do not have the mirror from before for Delia it is possible to get 
help from Danrys who also knows Armal Sadak. Go back and see Danrys after having 
seen Armal Sadak at least once and he will give you the password.

### Sewers

Leave Armal's den and go to the end of the passageway that leads to his boat. 
The more attentive of you will notice the entrance to the Stallite's underground 
sewer system. A skull that decorates the vault marks the entrance to the hide 
out.

Go to the part of the passageway that does not have a barrier and jump into the 
water by pressing on the space bar. Once inside you are welcomed by a loud 
sneeze. The message is clear, you are not alone and the Konkalites that are 
waiting for you are clearly not overly concerned with discretion!

Change to combat mode now and take out your weapon (if you have one). Kill the 
two men that attack you, it's not worth trying to take a more diplomatic 
approach during these first encounters with the Konkalites. After having sent 
your enemies' souls into the darkness do not forget to go through their pockets. 
It is equally the case for the last two, even if their bodies have disappeared 
under water.

Position yourself where their bodies disappeared and press on the space bar, you 
will find their weapons. There is no shame in taking them, as it is entirely 
possible that your weapon gets broken during combat.

Go up the staircase and save the game when you get to the other side of the 
passageway. Go down carefully, You will see a meeting of these terrors of the 
sewers. You will easily recognise the people who were responsible for attacking 
the Council Chamber.
Their chief, Sordos confirms your suspicions as he speaks to, and kills the last 
person alive after the failed mission (you received the poison rather than the 
Great Sunseer!).

After the meeting, one of these delightful characters approaches you. You know 
what happens by now! Get out your favourite weapon and kill him straight away. 
Now you can approach the main room of the Konkalites' hide out in peace.

Quickly approach the two guards in front of the chief's door. If you are quick 
enough you can offer them a drink of stohll. That will help you avoid a fight, 
if you speak to the Konkalites before getting them completely drunk you will 
learn a lot of information.

Once on the other side, you find yourself in Sordos's apartments, but he is not 
alone: Thanandar, your so-called ally is there. Not only does he seem dubious in 
his determination to "cure" the cadaver that you left in the hospital but he 
also informs you of the kidnapping of your father. There is something rotten in 
the kingdom of Sparta!
In addition, Thanandar orders Sordos to kill you immediately. Sordos is well 
armed and if you feel like avoiding the fight by leaving the room, a Konkalite 
will knock you down before you know what's hit you. There is no possible escape; 
you will have to defeat both Sordos and Thanandar!
Do not underestimate this little bald and sickly warrior, he fights a lot better 
than you imagine.

Are you still alive? Well done, now check their bodies. 
You will get the weapon from the fat Sordos as well as his key and a weapon 
design.
There are even more interesting things on Thanandar. You will find a red key and 
a potion that reduces the effects of the evil that has invaded your body. Save 
it and only use it in an emergency.
NB: The red key that Thanandar had stolen from your father is used to activate 
the giant crystal in the Rahal Chamber in the temple. Use the key with the metal 
plate that you found in the Archivist's room, it will get you into the crypt.

After having checked the bodies on the ground, now turn your attention to the 
rest of the room. You will find food if you look in the barrels and casks that 
are against the wall. 
Open the chest with Sordos's key: You will find a very interesting document. 
Read it, it is the irrefutable proof of the alliance between the Provost Dhorkan 
and Sordos. The traitor!

This really is not a good day!

#### Alternative route 

If you do not want to confront the Konkalites, there is another way of 
confronting Thanandar. Rather than going to see Sordos, go up to the Upper City 
and go and see Thanandar at the hospital.
He is now accompanied by a Konkalite who is (very badly) disguised as a Guardian 
of Fire.
Thanandar will be courteous when you visit the first time, but the second time 
the Konkalite will attack you. Be ready to defend yourself!

### SPECIAL: Captured by the Konkalites! 

After the death of Thanandar, if a Konkalite defeats you you will not be killed 
but imprisoned in one of their horrible cages. To escape you must go into dark 
mode and become enraged (twice), you will smash the door and be able to leave. 
Attention! The combat will be difficult.

### Traitor, guilty and irresponsible!

When you leave Sordos's office, stop for a moment next to the piles of barrels 
and cans in the Konkalites' main room. If you search on the left-hand side you 
will find a handle that will be very useful to you in building the weapon that 
is described on the plan you recently acquired from Sordos. 

Leave the sewers and go and find Danrys, Give him the weapon design and the 
handle. He promises to build you a new weapon: The Flame-thrower, leave him to 
it and go back to the Upper City. 

Go towards the barracks and be prepared to speak with all your old colleagues in 
order for them let you pass. Cross the building and go to the Provost Dhorkan's 
door which is guarded by Captain Phedoria. Approach him and speak with him, show 
him the document that you found in the Konkalite hide out. Convinced, Phedoria 
asks you to arrest Dhorkan. 

As you enter Dhorkan's office you see the traitor leaving via a secret passage 
that closes behind him. Let Phedoria go and alert the Great Sunseer's guards. 
You must go and find a stiletto that is in the left-hand drawer of the desk in 
the middle of the room. Go to the spot where the entrance to the secret passage 
had closed, examine the wall and insert the stiletto knife into the opening that 
you find.
The passage opens (and stays open for future use), go inside and climb down the 
steps at the bottom of which you find your father, also contaminated and in 
agony. He explains Thanandar's terrible plan and you learn that he is in fact 
not dead (the Evil of the Darkness allowed him to recover from your attack).
Once your father has breathed his last breath there is no point in checking his 
pockets, they are empty and anyway, it's not the done thing you heartless 
person!
Follow the passage and you will find yourself in the Lower City. 

You can go and see Danrys and take your weapon if you want. Do not forget that 
you have limited ammunition and that you still have many hard adversaries to 
encounter.

Go to Armal Sadak's hide out and turn left (the way to the ramparts). You will 
find Kalhi fighting with one of the Scavengers. Explain the fragility of life to 
her, it's all you can do. You immediately learn that Kalhi was in fact 
bargaining.

Return to the Upper City via the mechanical platform. Go to the temple and you 
will find a transformed and powerful 2m60 Thanandar, with a terrible smile.
It's not worth trying anything, Thanandar is no longer human and beats you to 
the ground immediately, enough time however for Zed to take the passage which 
leads to the crypt, the "Heart of Light" of the Stallite (under the praetorium 
in the form of a boat).

Fortunately the over confident Thanandar ahs not killed you. Get up after he 
leaves and go down the stair sbehind Zed who is now contaminated and 
"controlled" by Thanandar.
He touches the "Heart od Light" and corrupts it with the evil poison that 
Thanandar had taken from his own body. Before dying, Zed has the time to give 
you his "Tear od Life", his last strength, in a jet of luminous energy that 
passes through your body.

### Zed is dead...

Go into dark mode (press TAB) and check your companion, you can take his weapons 
that will be useful to venge his death...Be certain that Thanandar will pay!

#### Alternative route 

For the more aggressive player, there is another way than that described above. 
You find Zed in your father's place. If you have killed Thanadar in the 
hospital, Zed will have been imprisoned in the Konkalite jail. If you kill 
Thanandar in Sordos's office, leave and go to Danrys's home. When you return to 
the Konkalite hide out they will have transferred Zed to their prison.
Once in the Konkalite prison kill the guards and search them. Use the key they 
have to open the grill at the end of the prison. Zed, in very bad condition 
waits for you inside (occasion for a moving cinematic scene).
Before being taken over by the Evil of the Darkness he reveals Thanandar's plans 
to you and gives you his "Tear of Life". Now there is only the monster left in 
him. Have pity and kill him immediately!
The rest of the action is the same after this point, but this time it is your 
father that is used to corrupt the "Heart of Light". An occasion to discover new 
cinematic scenes.

### The lights go out

When you leave the crypt (your hopes of being cured lost!), you meet the Great 
Sunseer and Phedoria. Lory informs you of the worrying state of affairs in the 
Stallite. Follow her to her "office" above the Council Chamber.
There, she informs you of the existence of a "tomb", the true source of the 
Stallite's energy.
To find it, you must find what your father had been looking for all his life: 
The path that leads to the source!
In his apartments you find a door that can only be opened with a very special 
key. It is a crystal key made up of four distinct elements of which the first 
part is in Lory's possession, it is the ring that Rylsadhar had given him at the 
beginning of the day.

You must find the three other crystals that make up the key to open your 
father's secret cabinet and profit from his research to find the tomb. Even 
captain Phedoria is counting on you!

The first crystal is in the possession of a master builder Bandor. It is man 
with black skin and a leg made of steel, he had often worked with your father. 
When you leave the temple candles light all the Stallite, the Darkness having 
succeeded in entering the Stallite's walls following the corruption of the Heart 
of Light. Thanandar and his diabolical troops risk taking control of the 
Stallite.

Go to the Builders' building, it is guarded by a vigil dressed in blue. To get 
in you can of course kill him but you can also offer him some stohll after 
having given him something salty to eat such as dried meat or fish. He cannot 
hold alcohol and falls to the ground, drunk. If you choose to kill him, take 
care of his weapon, it gives him the advantage of distance and causes serious 
damage.
Once the guard is neutralised, go to the end of the corridor and take the lift.

When they see you arrive the builders are as surprised as they are terrified. 
One of the two of them must be Bandor; the only problem is that they both have 
black skin and a metal leg! Speak to them, of course they refuse to identify 
themselves.
Approach the workbench and take the parchment that you see. Approach one of the 
fires and threaten to burn the precious plan. Bandor identifies himself, in fear 
of seeing his work disappear in flames.

Go and speak to him and show him the first part of the key you have, he will 
give you the second part.

Return to the lower City using the mechanical platform and go to the bunker of 
which the entrance is marked with a red cross. Surprise! 
Dhorkan is there, he is drawing something on the door, take out your weapon and 
beat him. After your "amicable" agreement search him and, besides his weapons 
and a map from Before you will find the third part of the crystal key.

The map gets you into the bunker; you have to put it in the box that is next to 
the door.
Enter and search the room thoroughly. Behind the door, under a metal plate you 
will find an object from "Before", a kind of electronic component with green 
liquid inside. 
Continue searching, you will find a gun behind one of the cryogenic cases. As is 
the case for all the weapons that you have found, you must be sparing with 
ammunition, even more so with this one, it is extremely powerful and you will 
find very little appropriate ammunition.

Return to the Upper City via the secret passage that ends on Dhorkan's office.
Go to the prison and kill the guard (a man's gotta do what a man's gotta do – 
especially with idiots).
Take his keys from him and open the cell to the right. A Konkalite is inside, 
change to combat mode and kill him.
During this brief encounter, the Konkalite speaks of Zed, in light of the fact 
that you have probably gleaned some information to find the last fragment (we 
hope you use these solutions consciously), you will undoubtedly have learnt that 
Zed was one of the people likely to be in possession of it. This Konkalite is in 
fact one of the two that captured Zed and stole his crystal.
Although you find nothing when you search the body of the dead Konkalite, you 
notice that the bed in the cell has moved.
Go into Dark mode and hit the bed. The crystal, hidden behind the bed falls to 
the ground, pick it up.

You have collected all the pieces of the key that is now whole, Well done!

### Outside

What happens in this chapter is optional and not necessary to finish the 
adventure, but exploring outside will be useful to you as a way of reducing your 
suffering, especially if you have consumed the potion that you found on 
Thanandar.

Return to the lower city and go to the bunker (the door marked with red). Go 
through the door and climb the staircase as far as the guard's path that goes 
over the gate to the Stallite. Once on the ramparts you will find the body of a 
Guardian of Fire, its is not worth checking him. Continue along the ramparts as 
far as the sentry box where the Wanderer Lodar is fighting a Konkalite.

Help the Wanderer and in gratitude, the explorer will give you a helmet. It is 
the final piece that combined with the gas bottle from Before makes up the 
aqualung that lets you breath under water. Thank the Wanderer and return to the 
Lower City.

NB: If you kill the Wanderer, you can take the helmet from him, it is also 
possible that the Konkalite kills Lodar and steals his helmet, in which case you 
will have to fight him. If the Konkalite gets away, you can get it later at 
Armal Sadak's home (who kills the Konkalite to avenge the Wanderer's death) in 
exchange for a Yong piece that you found on the Wanderer.

Go to the sewers (the banks where the Konkalites live) and onto the passageway 
which is just after the game save point before the staircase. There is a ladder 
that goes down into the deep waters of the canal.

Put on your wet suit and go down.

Once under the water, walk until you see a passage marked by a wrought iron 
arch. While you walk a creature from the Darklands attacks you. Fortunately it 
is easy to kill despite being slowed down by the water.

As you follow the submerged corridor, check one of the skeletons on your right, 
you'll find ammunition in the mud under the ribcage.


Once outside, you automatically take of your aqualung.

Go into combat mode immediately.

A Shankreature jumps down on you from the big cetacean skeleton. The monster is 
quite vicious and you are allowed to use one of your firearms to get rid of it.

Continue along the beach, another Shankreature is in the corner of a cave that 
is in front of you, same situation, same solution.

Pick up the poison that is on the ground in the cave, it's not very good but it 
might come in useful...


Continue your path by wading in the black water to go around the rock. You will 
find yourself in front of the entrance to a vast cave filled with luxuriant 
vegetation (a miraculous sight on Dark Earth!).


Follow the path on the left until you find yourself in front of a pond guarded 
by a giant snake that you will have to get rid of. Go into the water and climb 
the staircase that leads to the hide out of Leona, the "Witch".

It is this charming person that your father came to see when he made his 
excursions into the Darklands.

Do not scare her, and listen to what she has to say. She will give you more 
information concerning the existence of the Tomb and will inform you of the 
healing qualities of the water that flows at the foot of her shelter. 

Return the way you had come and drink some water, your life level will reduce 
dramatically, but the level of Darkness in your blood will also fall. 

Attention: You can only drink this water twice for an entire life level.

If you try again, Arkhan will prevent himself automatically for fear of becoming 
too weak to continue his mission. Return to the beach and go to the edge of the 
water where you arrived, put your mask back on and return to the Lower City.

This little detour will at least reduce the Darkness that flows in your veins 
for some time.

This will delay your transformation into a creature of the Darkness, which would 
change your physical appearance to such an extent that it would be useless to 
try and get help from anybody (apart from a few people), and you still need 
help!

#### Alternative route

If, for one reason or another, you have not succeeded in getting the crystals, 
it is possible to get one from a block of crystal that is near the water where 
there is the giant snake. To do that you must use the small axe that you found 
at Danrys's home. You will get a piece of rough crystal that Danrys can cut in 
the form of the other crystal keys that you can show him.

If Danrys is dead, you can even cut the key yourself. , You will have to put 
some fuel into the machine the Danrys uses, as it is empty).

### Saving Bogdaran's sexuality

After having got some information from Danrys concerning the object from Before 
that is in your possession, he will tell you that you will be able to get some 
more information from Bogdaran, the master oilier whose old uniform you took to 
help Khali escape.

You will have to find a way to force Bogdaran to speak without him wetting 
himself...Not easy!

Go and see the coward, his office is on the first floor of the barracks. Stand 
in front of him and speak to him. He immediately gets scared and hides behind 
the hopeless barrier of his small arms. Go into combat mode and pretend to hit 
him once.

His little brain reacts and he realises that if you had wanted to kill him you 
would have done so. 

From now one, he will have the right attitude for you to have a real 
conversation. Give him the object from Before and in exchange for a little 
favour that you must do for him, Bogdaran promises to study the object. But 
before you must do a little favour, go and get the object of his desire, no 
other than the dancer Delia, is that all! 

Return to the lower city and go to her home, she is still in one piece. Make 
sure that you are presentable, if your transformation is too advanced she will 
be afraid and refuse to follow you. You will therefore need to heal yourself by 
drinking the potion or drinking the spring water in Leona's cave.

If all goes well, speak to Delia and tell her that Bogdaran is among the living, 
she will be more than happy to follow you.

But as soon as you leave the backstage area, Maor the landlord bars your way, he 
is also contaminated and even uglier than you are! Delia stays away from the 
combat, try and convince her that you are a good bodyguard.

Once you have beaten Maor, Delia will follow you closely and you can go 
everywhere. Return to the Upper City with the lift, Delia will not dare follow 
you into Dhorkan's secret passage.


When you arrive you will see signs that clearly say, "all is not well". Your old 
colleagues are scattered around on the floor, next to a creature that had 
clearly done a lot of damage before deciding to die.


Go towards the barracks. You will meet a creature that is eating one of your 
unfortunate colleagues. As usual Delia will take a step back at this point and 
leave you to deal with the creature alone, be careful; he's very tough.

After the combat go and find Delia if she has not come to join you, and go up to 
Bogdaran's laboratory.


Bogdaran and Delia are very happy to see each other once again, even if Delia 
makes it quite clear that she is more impressed by your virility than the Master 
Oiler's (speak to him in Dark Mode, you'll see!). After the thanks, remember to 
ask Bogdaran what you want to know concerning the object from Before.

The object contains a substance that is extremely volatile when in contact with 
water; one drop of water and it explodes immediately. Fortunately Bogdaran has 
isolated the substance with oil in order to delay the explosion. However, you 
really were very lucky when you took the underwater passage with the substance 
on you!


NB: if Delia does not want to follow you or if Bogdaran is dead, you can always 
isolate the substance yourself in oil by using the large oil container next to 
the staircase.

### Scientific sciences, explosive explosions and new news 

Return to your father's apartments, it is highly likely that you will be met by 
two guardians of Fire who have just killed the creature that had once been 
Dunlys the man that Thanandar had claimed to "heal" at the beginning of the 
game. Too afraid, they do not ask any questions and attack you immediately, 
defend yourself and show them what you're made of!


Then go into your father's bedroom and insert the crystal key into the lock in 
the wall. You are finally in Rylsadhar's secret laboratory. Go toward the 
workbenches on the right and left.

On the bench you will find a parchment that confirms the existence of the "Runka 
tomb" (phew, it exists!), as well as a document that will help you decipher the 
motifs that you will find in the tomb later on.

Go to the small telescope, which is at the end of the table, and go into dark 
mode. Arkhan hits the table and a hidden key falls. Pick it up, it will get you 
into the well that is in the middle of the main square of the Upper City.

While we're on the subject, go to the well. Take the key and open the grill on 
the side in front of the Builders' tower. Then throw the object from Before that 
Bogdaran had repaired for you, turn around and get away as quickly as possible, 
WITHOUT TURNING!


There is an incredible explosion and you will find the area has changed 
somewhat: there is now an enormous hole in the main square!

Return to the fountain (now half destroyed) at the bottom of the staircase. On 
the ground you will find a blade from the water pump) system, pick it up and go 
to the other remaining pieces of the propeller. Replace the missing blade onto 
the axle, go to the other end of the pole, go into dark mode (the only way of 
convincing Arkhan to make such a dangerous jump) and use the strange apparatus 
as a makeshift parachute.

The fall is quite a bad one, the propeller is broken and you crash to the floor 
of a stone passage way at the bottom of the well. Fade to black.

When you wake up, a few minutes, or hours later you are approaching the final 
part of your transformation. You will have to be fast if you do not want to lose 
yourself to the Darkness!


### The Tomb

Here you are in the "Tomb", an immense underground construction deep under the 
Stallite; such an incredible sight makes one understand immediately that there 
are supernatural forces at work here!

It is clear that the short cut that you have found was not part of its design, 
the door that leads to the tomb is closed, you only have one solution, follow 
the small passage which is behind you and cross the tomb in the other direction.

In the next room, notice the drawings that decorate the floor, it is a labyrinth 
that you have to cross once you have activated the door. For the moment, there 
is no danger.

Go to the small door that is on the other side of the room, it will close behind 
you when you pass he threshold. Your journey ends here. The tomb opens onto a 
very high cliff, it's not surprising that your father never found the entrance, 
it was destroyed by the Great Cataclysm!


Return to the very gig door, on each side of the opening you will see two panels 
with drawings that resemble those that that you saw in your father's secret 
laboratory on the parchments. You must use the levers to select the right 
"runes" to open the door. Start with the panel on the left and compose the 
following sentence:

"RUNKA-SUN-PROTECTION"

Then pass to the panel on the right and compose: 

"PLANET-DESTRUCTION-SHANKR".


Feel free to use the translation parchment of your father's and try and use it 
to find the symbols that correspond with the sentences above.

Once you are ready, activate the lever on the right to validate your code.

Once the right combination has been activated, the ground starts to tremble as 
the door pivots to let you in; you are advised to save the game before going any 
further.

Now you are in front of the labyrinth, now activated. It is in fact very simple, 
the path should be followed to your right and there are not too many paths that 
go off in all directions. Really, it is very easy. The difficult bit is the 
rotating blades that are along the length of the passage and that you should try 
and avoid, they cut your head clean off in one go!

Stay calm and take your time.

It is simple to avoid the blades, when one of them comes toward you, press the 
space bar to duck, press the space bar again to stand up straight and continue.

At the end of this passage you will see a game save point that is a little set 
back from the labyrinth.

Light shines through the wall at the end. The door to the tomb seems to be about 
to open, but you hear a voice from behind you: Thanandar! Your sworn enemy is 
now before you, entirely transformed; now in the form of an enormous 
creature...and he's clearly hungry! Get ready for a hard fight.

"One on One", Thanandar is invincible in this form, there's no point in beating 
him to the ground, he'll get up even stronger and tear you pieces.

The only way to destroy him is to open the door to the tomb.

Start by knocking out your enemy (use your firearms as much as possible), and 
use the time that he needs to recover to get to the door, there are two big 
levers.

Push both the levers and a light comes on. You must but the light on the left 
down, and the light on the right, up in order to activate the mechanism. And all 
of that before Thanadar gets to you.

### Epilogue: Victory of light over darkness!

You have succeeded! The great door opens flooding the room the room with light 
and energy. Thanandar, who was totally corrupted by Shankr, explodes when he 
comes into contact with the light. Riddled with pain (The Darkness reacts badly 
with the energy), you drag yourself toward the Runka and the source of light 
that you have just freed.

When you think that you are about to die, the creature of light welcomes you and 
speaks to you. Your arrival has awakened it and it understands that there are 
creatures of the Darkness all around. You entirely cured and light returns to 
Sparta. Thanandar's creatures are all condemned to certain death, the town is 
saved and Arkhan once more human. Congratulations, you have won!

We hope that you enjoyed playing Dark Earth as much as we did creating it.
